1. Summary of 2002_S_218.txt with 189 keywords and 181 words : 2.  Subsequently, the matter was taken to the High Court and the High Court recorded the finding, as noticed above, of acquittal on consideration of the doctrine of benefit of doubt.
The High Court in its order records as below:- "It is the evidence of PW.1 that when he received the blow, he was able to see the appellant through the electric light which was burning in the padasala.
According to PW.8 he visited the hospital at about 6.00 A.M. and recorded a complaint as narrated by PW.1.
In fine the High Court concluded that on the assessment of both direct and circumstantial evidence, there is a considerable doubt to prove the complicity of the guilt of the appellant and the doubt thus ought to be extended in favour of the appellant and hence the order of acquittal on the ground of benefit of doubt.
4.  The learned advocate appearing in support of the appeal has taken us through different parts of the evidence as well and submitted that the High Court is in manifest error in recording a doubt in the matter.
2. Summary of 2002_I_50.txt with 326 keywords and 527 words : International was a related person within the meaning of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (for short, 'the Excise Act'), the Superintendent of Central Excise issued a notice on 13 April 1982 for the period 11 April 1978 to 29 September 1979 to the respondent to show cause as to why the duty at appropriate rate under Rule 9(2) of the Central Excise Rules on the higher value fetched directly or indirectly by it from the independent buyers should not be charged when they were not paying excise duty, in view of the benefit of the Notification 71/78, and as to why penalty should not be imposed.
On appeal, the Tribunal accepted the findings recorded by the adjudicating authority and held that the respondent and M/s.
3.  The learned Attorney General, appearing for the appellant, contends that without anything more the findings accepted by the Tribunal are sufficient to show that the requirements of 'related person' are satisfied.
Learned counsel for the respondent invited our attention to the following findings of the Tribunal: "No evidence regarding mutuality of interest has been brought on record except the evidence of sale of goods by the appellants to or through M/s.
International are related persons the Tribunal has rightly allowed the appeal.
4(4Xc) of the Excise Act. It reads as follows : "(c) "related person" means a person who is so associated with the assessee that they have interest directly or indirectly, in the business of each other and includes a holding company, a subsidiary company, a relative and a distributor of the assessee, and any sub-distributor of such distributor.
From a plain reading of the definition, it is evident that if a person is so associated with the assessee that both of them have interest directly or indirectly in the business of each other, they would be treated as related persons.
The ingredients of the first part of definition are: first, a person to be treated as related person must be associated with the assessee; secondly, the person so associated and the assessee must have interest in the business of each other; and thirdly, such interest may be direct or indirect.
Mutuality of interest between the other person and the assessee in the business of each other, whether direct or indirect, is necessary to label such a person as a related person.
Following the judgment in Bombay Tyre International 1983 Indlaw SC 1 (supra), speaking for the Court, Bhagwati, J., as he then was, observed: "It is essential to attract the applicability of the first part of the definition that the assessee and the person alleged to be a related person must have interest, direct or indirect, in the business of each other.
International was so associated with the respondent that they had interest, directly or indirectly, so as to conclude that they were related persons.
Internationals a 'related person' giving the prices at which the goods were sold to the related person and to other dealers and the differential price in the classification list while claiming the benefit of the exemption under Notification 71/78, as it evident from page six of the paper book, it was for the Revenue to deal with the respondent before approving the price list.
3. Summary of 2002_P_82.txt with 1110 keywords and 1389 words : The controversy centers around determination of the purpose for which the premises have been let, and, depending on the answer, whether the applicability of S.
The Licensees will, however, be free to use the said premises in part or in full also for office purpose provided the rules of the local authorities so permit and in such an even the Licensees shall pay to the owners any increase in local taxes, etc.
5. On behalf of the appellants, one Rajbir Pal, Lower Division Clerk of Municipal Corporation of Delhi was examined as RW2, who stated that Greater Kailash-I was a freehold area where it was permissible, so far as MCD is concerned, to use the property for residential as well as commercial purposes.
In the records relating to this property, made available by the witness in the court, there was no letter from the landlord allowing commercial user of the suit premises by the tenants though a letter dated 1.3.1990 from the appellants requesting for permitting commercial user of the suit premises was available in the records.
6 of the Licence Deed and submitted that the premises have been let out only for the residence of directors, partners and officers of the tenant-company but the tenants have been permitted freely to use the tenancy premises in part or in full also for office purposes which shows that so far as the parties to the tenancy agreement are concerned the purpose of letting is mixed, i.e., residential and non-residential both.
The submission of Mr. M.L. Verma, the learned senior counsel for the landlord-respondent, has been that the principal purpose of letting is residential only though incidentally user for office purposes has been allowed, eclipsed by the condition that such user does not invite the wrath of the rules of the local authorities.
Inasmuch as the laws governing the local authorities and as applicable to the suit premises do not permit user of the premises for any purpose other than residential, the purpose of letting, on a fair construction of cl.
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties at length we are satisfied that the predominant and main purpose, for which the suit premises have been let is residential and therefore proceedings for eviction under S.
One of the grounds provided by clause (e), relevant for our purpose, is under:- "(e) that the premises let for residential purposes are required bona fide by the landlord for occupation as a residence for himself or for any member of his family dependent on him, if he is the owner thereof, or for any person for whose benefit the premises are held and that the landlord or such person has no other reasonably suitable residential accommodation; Explanation - For the purpose of this clause, 'premises let for residential purposes' include any premises which having been let for use as a residence are, without the consent of the landlord, used incidentally for commercial or other purposes" 8.
It is not permissible under the scheme of the Act to file an application seeking an order for the recovery of the premises let for non-residential purposes on the ground of bona fide requirement.
Letting out for composite or mixed purposes and whether the premises let for such composite or mixed purposes can be got vacated on the ground of bona fide requirement is not specifically provided by the Act. 9.
In our opinion the expression 'the premises let for residential purposes' should be construed liberally and not technically or narrowly; meaning thereby, where the premises are solely let for residential purposes they are undoubtedly covered by S.
14(1)(e) but even when the premises are let out for composite or mixed purposes if the predominant or main purpose of letting is for residential purposes, the same would be included within the expression 'the premises let for residential purposes'.
An incidental, a secondary or unauthorized user of the premises for purposes other than residence would not take the premises out of the meaning of the expression 'the premises let for residential purposes'.
Premises are capable of being classified into residential and non-residential depending on the purpose of letting.
Question of construction and determining the purpose of letting may pose difficulty when the premises are let for mixed, composite or dual purposes, i.e., where the entire premises are allowed to be used for any overlapping purpose or the premises forming subject-matter of one tenancy are allowed to be used for purposes more than one.
The premises were residential in nature and let out for residential purposes.
The landlord, a lawyer, applied for recovery of possession of his residential premises pleading bona fide requirement for his residential purposes.
It was held that merely because the lawyer-landlord intended to use a portion of the premises for purposes of his office, library or study, the same would not detract from his requirement being for residential purposes.
This decision clearly spells out that incidental, secondary or partial user of the premises for office purposes along with use as residence of the purposes does not alter the main or predominant purpose of user of the premises and the same continues to be residential.
The Bench applied the test - What is the dominant purpose and principal user of the premises?
The Bench opined that answer would determine the purpose of tenancy and user of premises.
The Full Bench held the English test being applicable in India too, as sound and reasonable, and approved the test of dominant purpose and principal user being applied for determining the purpose of letting though the Bench observed that such test was not always of easy application and the difficulty in the actual application of test was capable of being taken care of by a margin of judicial discretion in the matter of the determination of the question of the character of the building as a question of fact has necessarily to be allowed for.
14(1)(e) of the Act, so long as the principal and dominant purpose of letting is residential merely because a mixed user of the premises or user of a part or incidental or ancillary user of the premises is permitted for activities other than residential, the purpose of letting the premises would not cease to be residential and the premises would continue to be governed by S.
It is not the case of the appellants that any business activity is being carried out in the suit premises or was permitted to be carried on or was included within the purposes of letting.
In the succeeding sentence the use of word 'however' is suggestive of the fact that incidental user of the tenancy premises for the office purpose also was permitted by the landlord.
Cl. 7 of the Deed prohibits user of the premises for business purposes.
The upshot of the above discussion is that the primary and dominant purpose of letting the suit premises is residential.
The suit premises have been rightly held by the High Court to be 'the premises let for residential purposes' within the meaning of S.
(18) incorporated permission fro the landlord to the tenant to utilize the premises, in case he so wanted, wholly or partially, for office purposes but subject to getting permission from the Government, it was held that so long as the tenant secured condonation of misuser from the Land and Development Office on payment of charges or penalty, the eviction order could be held in abeyance.
14(1)(e) of the Act; all that the High Court considered was whether the user or dealing with the premises by the tenant was contrary to any condition imposed on the landlord by the Government or local authority within the meaning of S.
14(1)(e) and submitted that the Legislature in its wisdom thought fit to enact that premises let for residential purposes if used incidentally for commercial or other purposes by the tenant but without the consent of the landlord would not alter the purpose and the enactment of the explanation is suggestive of legislative intent that even incidental user for commercial or other purposes if accompanied by the consent of the landlord would take the premises out of the expression 'premises let for residential purposes'.
All that the explanation say is that the tenant cannot by his unilateral act of impermissible user, alter the purpose of letting.
This explanation has nothing to do with determining the main, principal or dominant purpose of letting - the theory which in our opinion applies to interpreting the expression "the premises let for residential purposes" in S.
4. Summary of 2002_S_673.txt with 321 keywords and 693 words : P. Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') before the prescribed authority, the tenure holder took a stand that the land recorded in the name of his wife who has already been divorced since 1969 cannot be clubbed.
Since the prescribed authority was required to determine the ceiling surplus in the hand of the tenure holder, one of the questions for consideration was whether in fact, there has been a divorce between the tenure holder and his wife as claimed by them or it was merely a subterfuge to get over the rigours of the provisions of the Ceiling Act. On the basis of materials produced before it, the prescribed authority came to the conclusion that in fact, there had been no divorce and the parties adopted divorce attempts for escaping the ceiling law.
Having come to the aforesaid conclusion, the prescribed authority concluded that the land standing in the name of Khatoon Nisa, wife of Rahmatullah, tenure holder, has to be clubbed with the holding of the tenure holder, inasmuch as they come within the definition of the 'family' under S.
13 of the Act and the appellate authority affirmed the conclusion arrived at by the prescribed authority and came to the conclusion that there has been no error committed by the prescribed authority in treating the appellant being members of the same family for the purpose of the provisions of the Act. The two appeals thus having been dismissed, the matter was carried to the High Court u/art.
Having thus come to the aforesaid conclusion, the Court affirmed the conclusion of the prescribed authority under the Ceiling Act in the matter of determination of the surplus land in the hands of the tenure holder.
4. Dr. Dhawan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, contended that the High Court, while exercising its power of supervisory jurisdiction of a writ of certiorari is called upon to examine the correctness of the conclusion arrived at by the inferior Tribunal and will be justified in interfering with those conclusions if the inferior Tribunal either has admitted inadmissible evidence under consideration or has rejected any admissible piece of material or that the conclusion is such which cannot be said to be a reasonable one on the materials on record or that the finding is based on no evidence.
These being the parameters for exercise of the power, the High Court should have limited its consideration only to the materials on which the prescribed authority and appellate authority under the Act came to the conclusion and the High Court was not called upon to examine the larger issue about the Constitutionality and legality of a divorce made by a Muslim male by uttering talaq three times at one sitting.
So far as the first submission of Dr. Dhawan is concerned, we find force in the same as, in our opinion, in the writ petition filed by the tenure holder and his wife, it was not necessary for the Court to examine a larger issue on the question of the Constitutionality and validity of a divorce by a Muslim man by uttering 'talaq' thrice in one sitting.
5 of the Act are complied with, in the case in hand, the Magistrate came to a finding that there has been no divorce in the eye of law and as such, the Magistrate has the jurisdiction to grant maintenance u/s.
5 of the Act and even otherwise, the Magistrate under the Act has the power to grant maintenance in favour of the divorced woman, and the parameters and considerations are the same as those in Section 125, Cr. P.C. It is undoubtedly true that in the case in hand, S.
Necessarily, therefore, the Magistrate has exercised his jurisdiction under Section 125, Cr. P.C.But, since the Magistrate retains the power of granting maintenance in view of the  Bench decision in Danial Latifi's case 2001 Indlaw SC 20886 (supra) under the Act and since the parameters for exercise of that power are the same as those contained in Section 125, Cr. P.C., we see no ground to interfere with the orders of the Magistrate granting maintenance in favour of a divorced Muslim Woman.
5. Summary of 2002_K_134.txt with 1287 keywords and 1732 words : Copies of notification of appointment dated 18.7.1986 were sent to the Registrar, Gauhati High Court, Gauhati with a request to release the officer immediately so as to enable him to join the new assignment; to the respondent No.1 informing him that as soon as the post was advertised by the APSC, he should apply to the APSC for regularization of his ad-hoc appointment; and to the Secretary, APSC stating that the appointment became necessary in the interest of public service and the Commission was requested to advertise the post immediately and send its recommendation to the Government as early as possible.
Before or after regularization of the appointment of respondent No.1, there was no consultation by the Government with the High Court.
4. On 11.9.1986 the High Court notified seniority list of judicial officers in Assam Judicial Service Grade III.
On 24.6.1988 he made a representation to the High Court wherein he stated, inter alia, "basically I was and still am a judicial officer in the Grade III of the Assam Judicial Service"," I was appointed regularly and permanently"in judicial service, and that failure" to confirm our service and fix our inter se seniority" 5.
On 4.4.1995, the Registrar (Judicial) once again requested the State Government to take immediate steps to replace the services of respondent no.1 at the disposal of the High Court so that the officer could be repatriated and be posed as Assistant District & Sessions Judge, North Lakhimpur on or before 24.4.1995.
On 26.4.1995 the respondent no.1 sent a communication to the Registrar (Judicial), Gauhati High Court wherein, for the first time, he stated that he was a direct recruit in the Assam Legal Service through the Assam Public Service Commission and that he had expressed his desire indicating his option for permanent absorption in the Assam Legal Service.
On 20.3.1996 the Government of Assam notified the services of respondent no.1 being placed at the disposal of the Gauhati High Court.
By yet another notification of the same date the Government of Assam released the respondent no.1 from the post of Joint Legal Remembrancer and Joint Secretary so that he could join as Assistant District & Sessions Judge, Lakhimpur pursuant to the notification of the High Court.
On 6.5.1996 the learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition filed by respondent no.1 holding that the respondent no.1 was a member of Assam Judicial Service and could not have been regularized or absorbed in Assam Legal Service without consultation with the High Court.
On 2.6.2000 the Division Bench of the High Court allowed the writ appeal of respondent no.1 and quashed the notifications dated 10.4.1995 and 20.3.1996 forming an opinion that the appointment of respondent no.1 in Assam Legal Services was a substantive appointment.
We were informed that the High Court was not so very serious about the respondent no.1 being brought back to the judicial services - the right place to which he belongs and ought to be, but the High Court was certainly concerned about its stand being vindicated for preserving the independence of judiciary and the sanctity of Art. 235 of the Constitution being maintained.
It was also submitted by the learned counsel for the High Court that the impugned judgment of the Division Bench if sustained would create serious and anomalous situations where the judicial officers sent on deputation to various Government departments or whose services are temporarily loaned and placed at the disposal of employees other than the High Court in the interest of public convenience and better public administration may in future claim having been absorbed at such other places without the consent of the High Court and without the High Court having been consulted which would create a chaotic situation.
Instead written arguments were filed wherein very clearly and categorically the stand taken by the State Government is that the appointment of respondent no.1 in Assam Legal Services on the post of Deputy Secretary as also on the post of Joint Legal Remembrancer and Joint Secretary, Judicial Department was temporary and until further orders i.e. a purely temporary arrangement.
Sudhansu Sekhar Misra and Ors. 1967 Indlaw SC 173, the State Government contended that the respondent no.1 was a member of Assam Judicial Service and his services were handed over outside the cadre 'temporarily and until further orders' and therefore it was open for the High Court to recall the respondent no.1 and post him as Presiding Officer of a District Court.
The State Government endorsed the act of the High Court as 'unassailable' as the lien of respondent no.1 in his substantive post in his parent service, viz., Assam Judicial Service "still continues".
In its reply affidavit dated 3.11.2001 the State of Assam has stated that the respondent no.1 was a direct recruit to the Assam Legal Service, on a regular basis and with the consent of the Gauhati High Court.
Strangely enough the Government of Assam now proceeds to deny that the consultation with the High Court for the appointment of respondent no.1 in the Assam Legal Service was necessary.
However, the requirement was satisfied, submitted the learned counsel for the respondents No.1 and No.2, inasmuch as every step taken by the respondent no.1 or by respondent no.2 was brought to the notice of the High Court and the High Court although having knowledge of all the developments in the service career of the respondent no.1 whilst in Assam Legal Service and yet never objected or reacted to the continuance of the respondent no.1 in Assam Legal Service and also on his being promoted from Grade III to Grade II in Assam Legal Service never objected, much less protested, to what was being done.
Art. 234 provides for appointments of persons other than District Judges to the judicial services of a State being made by the Governor of the State in accordance with the rules made by him in that behalf after consultation with the State Public Service Commission and with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to such State.
It will be useful to exact and reproduce the following passage from the judgment of the Constitution Bench :- "While sparing the service of any judicial officer to the government it is open to the High Court to fix the period during which he may hold any executive post.
1978 Indlaw SC 498, the Constitution Bench clarified the meaning of the expression 'control' over District Courts and Courts subordinate thereto 'vesting' in the High Court and clearly stated that, amongst others, transfers and promotions and confirmation of such promotions of persons holding posts in the judicial service, transfers of District Judges and recall of District Judges posted on ex-cadre posts or on deputation on administrative posts in the High Court.
Selection of Candidates - (1) In the case of selecting persons for appointment to the service directly, the Governor shall make selection from qualified legal practitioners or judicial officers taking into consideration the person's legal qualifications, tact, general intelligence, integrity and previous experience, if any: Provided that in the case of appointment of a person to the service from amongst the Judicial Officers, no such appointment shall be made without consulting the Assam High Court ".
While seeking an appointment on regular basis as Deputy Secretary, neither the respondent No.1 felt the need of having his application forwarded by the High Court nor did the Government feel the need of 'consulting' the High Court, though mandatorily required by the Constitution as also by Rule 7 above quoted.
Similarly while promoting the respondent No.1 from Grade-III to Grade-II of Assam Legal Service and appointing him as Joint Secretary and Legal Remembrancer, the High Court was not consulted.
In almost all the States and Union Territories in the country services of judicial officers are loaned by High Courts to the governments for being utilized in litigation, judicial, law and legislative affairs departments of governments, by whatever name the departments may be called.
The Secretary (Law) or a Legal Remembrancer serving under the government though a judicial officer whose services have been placed at the disposal of the government by the High Court has a crucial role to play.
As held by this Court in Sudhansu Sekhar Mishra's case (supra), the State Government requesting the services of a complete judicial officer being made available to it and the High Court conceding to such request is by consent and willingness of the two.
However, if the services of a competent judicial officer who would otherwise be useful to the High Court were to be permanently appropriate by the State Government without the consent of the High Court that will be destructive of the very system and healthy practice apart from breach of a constitutional provision.
So also the Division Bench ignored the impact of constitutional provision while forming an opinion that the lien of respondent No.1 in judicial service stood automatically terminated as the appointment of respondent No.1 to legal service, whilst he was a member of judicial service, was made without consultation with the High Court and hence was invalid.
The learned counsel for the appellants made a statement under instructions that in the event of the respondent No.1 being brought back to judicial service the High Court would take a sympathetic and humane view of the problem of the respondent No.1 and he would be posted at a station wherefrom he can, without any inconvenience, continue neurological treatment of his son.
It was also submitted that the High Court would have no serious objection to the respondent No.1 continuing in legal service and even on being treated as absorbed therein but subject to reservation that he was not posted either as Judicial Secretary or as Legal Remembrancer because that may cause some embarrassment to the High Court.
We dispose of the appeal in terms of the following directions:- (1) The judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court is set aside insofar as findings on questions of law are concerned; (2) Within a period of six weeks from today, the State of Assam shall take a decision if the respondent No.1 can be posted in an officer other than that of Secretary (Judicial) and Legal Remembrancer in which case he shall continue in Assam Legal Service and need not be repatriated; (3) If the abovesaid direction cannot be carried out then at the end of six weeks the respondent No.1 shall be repatriated to the High Court as a member of judicial service and he shall be given a posting accordingly and consistently with the assurance given on behalf of the High Court.
6. Summary of 2002_M_177.txt with 248 keywords and 341 words : 2.  Feeling aggrieved by the rejection of bail at the hands of the Sessions Court, the respondent No. 1 moved the High Court under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. By order dated 08.11.2001, the High Court has allowed the prayer of the respondent No. 1 to be enlarged on bail.
6.  The learned counsel for the appellant has submitted by inviting attention of the Court to the provisions of Section 437 Cr.P.C. that a person accused of or suspected of the commission of any non-bailable offence shall not be released on bail if he had been previously convicted of an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for 7 years or more, unless special reasons for enlarging the accused on bail are available and recorded in writing.
The learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 submitted that the power of Sessions Court and High Court to enlarge the accused on bail under Section 439 Cr.P.C. are very wide and are not fettered by the provisions of Section 437 Cr.P.C..
7. A prayer for bail having been rejected by the Sessions Court although the High Court while exercising its jurisdiction under Section 439 Cr.P.C. is not acting as a court of appeal or court of revision over the order of the Sessions Court, nevertheless, the High Court should keep in mind, while hearing the application for bail, the factum of the prayer having been rejected by the Sessions Court and the reasons therefor expressly set out in the order of the Sessions Court.
The High Court has not said a word as to why the reasons assigned by the Sessions Court for rejecting the prayer for bail need to be ignored or are not relevant or why the High Court was inclined to exercise its power favourably to the accused applicant in spite of the availability of grounds to the contrary set out in the order of the Sessions Court.
9.  The impugned order of the High Court granting bail to the accused respondent No. 1 cannot be sustained and is set aside.
7. Summary of 2002_N_16.txt with 185 keywords and 242 words : 1.  These appeals are against the Judgment dated 18th February, 2000 in C.R.P. No. 2255 of 1998 and an Order dated 28th August, 2000 in Review Application No. 49 of 2000 of the High Court of Madras.
It was claimed that after the death of the mother the Appellant was in arrears of rent till the date of filing of the eviction petition.
4.  By an Order dated 7th July, 1997 the eviction petition was dismissed.
However, an Appeal against the order of dismissal was allowed by the Rent Control Appellate Authority by its Order dated 29th April, 1996.
As deposit was made the High Court by Order dated 14th September, 1998  extended time to deposit upto 11th September, 1998.
6.  It appears that in spite of the fact that the Civil Review Petition and the stay application were pending before the High Court, the Respondent applied to the Trial Court for striking out the defence of the Appellant and for passing of a decree of eviction.
When the Appellant learnt of the Order, he applied for a review of Order dated 18th February, 2000 to point out the fact that in spite of the High Court extending time to make the deposit the trial Court had ordered eviction.
The High Court did not deal with this aspect and dismissed the Review Petition by Order dated 28th August, 2000.
Once the High Court had extended time it should have set aside order dated 1st July, 1998.
8. Summary of 2002_A_74.txt with 197 keywords and 236 words : 3.  As an adhoc arrangement in terms of the order dated 11-10-2002, we directed that till further orders the power taken by Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh shall be paid for @ Rs 2.72 per unit and the difference between this rate and the rate to be calculated in terms of the order dated 8-10-2002 passed by the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission, Hyderabad shall be deposited in an interest-bearing account so that when the matters are heard appropriate directions can be passed.
5.  We direct the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission to hear the representatives of both the parties so as to explore the possibility of an agreed adhoc agreement for the working out of the sale of electricity in terms of order dated 11-10-2002.
In case the Commission is unable to make parties agree, it shall pass an order requiring the parties to enter into such adhoc agreement.
The adhoc arrangement would be without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties in the same manner as is the order dated 11-10-2002.
Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Respondent 1 in the civil appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 17310 of 2002 seeks certain directions against the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Leave is granted to the respondent M/s Astha Power Corporation (P) Ltd. to file an appropriate application to implead the State of Andhra Pradesh as party- respondent and seeking directions against the party to be impleaded.
9. Summary of 2002_M_16.txt with 1049 keywords and 1425 words : 2. This appeal filed by the accused persons is directed against the order dated 01 March 2000 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in Criminal Petition No.3052/99 declining to grant the prayer of the appellants for quashing the proceedings in CC No.24/99 on the file of the Court of Sub-Judge, Economic Offences at Hyderabad.
The respondent No.1 filed the complaint alleging offences under Sections 60, 63,68, 68-A read with Section 621 of the Act, against the appellants, alleging inter alia that the accused persons by making false, deceptive and misleading statements and by suppressing relevant facts induced various persons to pay them money for purchase of shares of the Power Company; raised millions of Dollars from Non-Resident Indians (NRIs); siphoned off those funds into bogus companies exclusively owned by them in off-shore companies and purchased shares of the Power Company in India in the names of bogus off-shore companies owned/controlled by them.
It was specifically alleged in the complaint petition that the accused persons have in effect committed fraud on the Power Company in whose name they collected money, invested that in their own companies and those companies in turn applied and got shares at the instance of the accused persons with the result that all these overseas investors are left high and dry.
These acts, it is alleged by the complainant, constitute offences under Sections 68 and 68-A of the Act. It is further alleged in the complaint petition that the appellants issued a document in the name of the Spectrum Infrastructures Ltd., Jersey, Channel Islands, styled as "Project Overview".
In the background of the above mentioned facts on which the complaint in question came to be filed the gist of which may be stated thus : "From the above material and conclusive evidence, it is clear that Accused Nos.1 and 2 grossly misrepresenting by false representations, induced most of the unknown investors outside the country to invest monies by issuing a circular, offer documents, and dishonestly concealing the material facts and those monies were appropriated into the account of the Accused persons and the Accused persons' Companies were allotted shares and the NRIs were not given any shares, even though claim is made that 130 share holders from the United States of America are the investors of the said monies.
On receipt of the same the accused persons filed the petition dated 28 June 1994 under Section 482 CrPC in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh with the prayer to quash the proceedings in CC No.24/99 and pending disposal of the petition to stay all further proceedings including appearance of the petitioners before the Court.
The main grounds of challenge against the proceeding was that the complaint does not make out any of the offences alleged by the complainant and as such it is bad in law and not maintainable; that the Act has no application to the transactions alleged in the complaint as the petitioners are the citizens of USA and they are the Directors of the overseas company which has been incorporated and functioning abroad and that the offer for investment was made to NRIs in USA; that the investing companies headed by the petitioners have taken necessary RBI permission to invest in the Power Company and accordingly have made the investment, and therefore they have not violated any law of the land; that even otherwise the investing companies did invest all the monies collected by them in the Power Company and as such the Power Company does not stand to lose anything; that the complainant who is not a mere shareholder but is the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Power Company is in no way aggrieved by any of the alleged acts by the petitioner, and therefore, the complaint has been filed with an oblique motive.
The complainant submitted that in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case the power under section 482 Cr.P.C. could not be exercised to quash the complaint petition and to terminate the proceeding at the preliminary stage.
The Court observed: "Apart from that in a transaction like the present one, assuming for the sake of arguments that all the allegations made in the complaint are true, it is doubtful whether it can safely be said that the alleged offences are committed wholly outside the territory of India as one of the elements in the crime is situated in India i.e. the Company in which the petitioners are alleged to have solicited the participation by way of equity, in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Mobarik Ali Ahmed vs.
On the discussions and the findings noted above, the High Court declined to quash the complaint petition and to drop the case against the accused persons.
The main thrust of the arguments of Shri Dushyant A.Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants was that the allegations in the complaint taken in entirety do not make out the offences as alleged in it; that the document alleged to have been issued by the appellants is not a 'prospectus' as defined in Section 2(36) of the Act; that the ingredients for applicability of Sections 60, 63, 68 and 68-A are not established on the allegations made in the complaint and the materials produced by the complainant even prima facie and that the appellants are citizens of U.S.A. and therefore, a criminal proceeding instituted against them in the court before the Magistrate is not maintainable.
In any view of the matter, Shri Ganguly contended, that no case for quashing of the complaint and the proceeding initiated on its basis under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. or Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been made out and, therefore, the High Court rightly dismissed the petition filed by the appellants.
The position has to be taken as well settled that power of quashing a criminal complaint and the proceeding initiated on its basis under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. or Article 226 of the Constitution is to be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases.
Though it is neither possible nor advisable to lay down any inflexible rules to regulate that jurisdiction, one thing, however, appears clear and it is that when the High Court is called upon to exercise this jurisdiction to quash a proceeding at the stage of the Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence the High Court is guided by the allegations, whether those allegations, set out in the complaint or the charge-sheet, do not in law constitute or spell out any offence and that resort to criminal proceedings would, in the circumstances, amount to an abuse of the process of the court or not." 15.
Bhajan Lal & Ors., 1992 Suppl.(1) SCC 335 1990 Indlaw SC 91 wherein it was observed thus : "We also give a note of caution to the effect that the power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases; that the court will not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint and that the extraordinary or inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its whim or caprice." 16.
In view of the principles of law it is to be considered whether on the allegations which applicants made in the complaint and the materials filed by the complainant a case for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. or Article 226 of the Constitution has been made out.
As noted earlier, it is alleged in the complaint that the accused, appellants herein, have committed the offences under Sections 60, 63, 68, 68-A read with Section 621 of the Act. Section 60 provides that : No prospectus shall be issued by or on behalf of a company or in relation to an intended company unless, on or before the date of its publication, there has been delivered to the Registrar for registration a copy thereof signed by every person who is named therein as a director or proposed director of the company or by his agent authorised in writing, and having endorsed thereon the documents enumerated in the section.
Union of India & Ors., (1993) 3 SCC 609 1993 Indlaw SC 1142], On consideration of the matter, we are of the view that in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court was right in declining to quash the complaint petition and the proceedings initiated on its basis.
10. Summary of 2002_S_550.txt with 1473 keywords and 3410 words : Thereafter the Constitutional validity of Section 25-N of the Industrial Disputes Act (as it then stood) was considered by a Constitution Bench in the case of Workmen v.
In Meenakshi Mills' case this Court, after referring to Excel Wear's case, upheld the Constitutional validity of Section 25-N.
Some of the High Courts have held that the amended Section 25-O of the Industrial Disputes Act arid or Section 6-W of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act still suffers from the substantial vice pointed out in Excel Wear's case and is, therefore, unconstitutional.
Some other High Court have, relying on Meenakshi Mills' case upheld he validity of amended Section 25-O and/or Section 6-W.
Ms. Jaising submitted that in Meenakshi Mills 's case a Constitution Bench of I this Court has extracted the reasons why in Excel Wears case Section 25-O was struck down.
It was submitted that this Court should not itself go into Excel Wear's case to find out the reasons why Section 25-O was struck down.
This Court then considered whether the restrictions imposed by Section 25-O (as it then stood) were reasonable and saved by Art. 19(6) of the Constitution.
It was held that the restrictions imposed by Section 25-O were unreasonable for the following reasons: (i) Section 25-O did not require giving of reasons in the order.
It was held that the result would be that if the Government order was not communicated to the employer within 90 days, strictly speaking, the criminal liability under Section 25-F may not be attracted if on the expiry of that period the undertaking is closed, but the civil liability under Section 25-O(5) would come into play on the expiry of period of 90 days.
6. In Meenakshi Mill's case, while considering the Constitutional validity of Section 25-N (as it then stood), Excel Wear's case was considered.
This Court than pointed out the differences between Sections 25-O and 25-N (as they then stood) and held that considerations which weighed in Excel Wear's case could not be applied for judging the validity of Section 25-N.
This Court then negatived the following submissions: (i)Adjudication by a judicial body available in the case of retrenchment under Section 25-F has been substituted by an administrative order passed by an executive authority in the case of retrenchment under Section 25-N and thereby a function which was traditionally performed by Industrial Tribunals Labour Courts has been conferred on an executive authority.
(2) of Section 25-N and it would be permissible for the authority to pass its order on policy considerations which may have nothing to do with an individual employer's legitimate need to reorganise its business.
The requirement that reasons must be recorded by the appropriate Government or authority for its order under subs.
(iii)There is no provision for appeal or revisions against the order passed by the appropriate Government or authority refusing to grant permission to retrench under sub-s.
8. On behalf of employees, it is submitted that the amended Section 25-O has removed all the vices pointed out in Excel Wear's case.
It is submitted that the amended Section 25-O is now similar to Section 25-N (as it then stood).
It is submitted that on the reasoning given in Meenakshi Mill's case the amended Section 25-O would have to be held to be constitutionally valid.
On behalf of the employers it has been submitted that: (a) in Meenakshi Mill's case Section 25-N was being considered.
It was submitted that in Meenakshi Mill's case it had been held that considerations which weighed in deciding the Constitutional validity of Section 25-O would not apply to Section 25-O.
It was submitted that the principles on which Section 25-N was held to be constitutionally valid would not and should not be applied when considering the Constitutional validity of Section 25-O.
(b) that the in Excel Wear's case Section 25-O (as it then stood) was struck down not just on procedural grounds, but also on substantive grounds.
It is submitted that the amended Section 25-O only removes the procedural defects but still suffers from the substantive vices pointed out in Excel Wear's case as in substance it is the same as Section 25-O (as it then stood).
It was submitted that, in the amended Section 25-O, the restrictions were not laid down by law but had been left to the executive to decide on a case to case basis.
(f) that the amended Section 25-O left it to the discretion of the appropriate Government to review the order or to refer the matter to the Tribunal.
9. In order to see whether the vices pointed out an Excel Wear's case have been cured and to consider whether principles laid down in Meenakshi Mills' case apply to amended Section 25-O it would be convenient to set out herein Section 25-O (as it then stood), the amended Section 25-O and Section 25-N (as considered in Meenakshi Mills' case).
They read as follows: 25-O (Unamended) 25-O Amended 25-N (1) An employer who intends to close down an undertaking of an Industrial establishment to which this Chapter applies shall, serve, for previous approval at least ninety days before the date on which the intended closure is to become effective, a notice in the prescribed (1) An employer who intends to close down an undertaking of an Industrial establishment to which this Chapter applies shall, in the prescribed manner, apply for prior permission at least ninety days before the date on which the intended closure is to become effective, to the appropriate Govern- (1) No workman employed in any industrial establishment to which this Chapter applies, who has been in continuous service for not less than one year under an employer shall be retrenched by that employer until.
(1) the appropriate Government may, if it is satisfied that the reasons for the intended closure of the undertaking are not adequate and sufficient or such closure is prejudicial to the public interest, by order, direct the employer not to close down such undertaking.
(2) Where an application for permission has been made under sub-section (1), the appropriate Government, after making such enquiry as it thinks fit and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the employer, the workmen and persons interested in such closure may, having regard to the genuineness and adequacy of the reasons stated the employer, the interest of the general public and all other writing indicating the reasons for retrenchment and the period of notice has expired, or the workman has been paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of the notice: 12.
Provided that no such notice shall be necessary if the retrenchment is under an agreement, which specifies a date for termination of service: (b) the workman has been paid, at the time of retrenchment, compensation which shall be equivalent to fifteen days' average pay for every completed year of continuous service or any part thereof in excess of six months: and (c) notice in the prescribed manner is served on the appropriate Government by notification in the Official Gazette, and the permission of such Government or j commencement of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 1976, such employer shall not close down the undertaking but shall within a period of fifteen days from such commencement, apply to the appropriate Government for permission to close down the undertaking.
(3) and the appropriate Government does not communicate the permission or the refusal to grant the permission to the employer within a period of two months from the date on the application is made, the permission applied for shall be deemed to have been granted on the expiration of the said period of two months.
(1) is made, or where no application relevant factors, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, grant or refuse to grant such permission and a copy of such order shall be communicated to the employer and the workmen.
(1) and the appropriate Government does not communicate the order granting or refusing to grant permission to the employer within a period of sixty days from the date on which such application is made, the permission applied for shall be deemed to have been granted on the expiration of the said period of sixty days.
(4) An order of the appropriate Government grant in for refusing to grant permission shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (5), be final and binding on all the parties and shall remain in force for one year from the date of authority is obtained under sub-section (2)....................
(1) the appropriate Government or authority may, after making such enquiry as such Government or authority thinks fit, grant or refuse, for reasons to be recorded in writing the permission for the retrenchment to which the notice relates.
(3) Where the Government or authority does not communicate the permission or the refusal to grant the permission to the employer within three months of the date of service of the notice under clause (c) of subs.
(5) The appropriate Government may, either on its own motion or on the application made by the employer or any workman, review its order granting or refusing to grant permission under subs.
(1) is made within the period specified therein or where the permission for closure has been refused, the closure of the undertaking shall be deemed to be illegal from the date of closure and the workmen shall be entitled to all the benefits under any law (32 of 1976), the period of notice given under clause (a) of Section 25-F for the retrenchment of any workman has not expired, the employer shall not retrench the workman but shall, within a period of fifteen days from such commencement, apply to the appropriate Government or to the authority specified in sub-s.
(4) and the appropriate Government or the authority, as the case may be, does not communicate the permission or the refusal to grant the permission to the employer within a period of two months from-the date on which the application is made, the permission applied for shall be deemed to have been granted on the expiration of the said period of two undertaking is approved or permitted to be closed down under sub-section ('.[) or sub-section (4), every workman in the said undertaking who has been in continuous service for not less than one year in that undertaking immediately before the date of application for permission under this section shall be entitled to notice and compensation as specified in S.25N as if the said workman had been retrenched under section, for the time being in force as if the undertaking had not been closed down.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in the for going provisions of this section, the appropriate Government may, if it is satisfied that owing to such exceptional circumstances as accident in the undertaking or death of the employer or the like it is necessary so to do, by order, direct that the provisions of subs.
May, by order withdraw such dispute or, as the case may be, such dispute in so far as it relates to such retrenchment and transfer the same to an authority (being an authority specified by the appropriate Government by notification in the Official Gazette) for consideration whether such retrenchment is justified and any order passed by such authority shall be final and binding on the employer and the workman or workmen.
We, therefore, do not accept the submission that the principles laid down in Meenakshi Mills case have no relevance in deciding the Constitutional validity of (amended) Section 25-O.
As has been set out herein above, in Excel Wear's case, one of the reasons why Section 25-O (as it then stood) was struck down was that it did not require giving of reasons.
(2) of Section 25-O, Parliament had used the expression "the appropriate Government may, if it is satisfied that the reasons for intended closure of the undertaking are not adequate or sufficient or such closure is prejudicial to the public interest" which implied that the order refusing to grant permission to close down the undertaking was to be passed on a subjective satisfaction of the appropriate Government about the adequacy or the sufficiency of the reasons for the intended closure or the closure being prejudicial to the public interest.
(2) of Section 25-N, the words used were "the appropriate Government or authority may after making such enquiry as such Government or authority thinks fit, grant or refuse, for reasons to be recorded in writing" which indicates that the appropriate Government or authority, before passing an order granting or refusing permission for retrenchment, is required to make an enquiry though the precise nature of the enquiry that is to be made is left in the discretion of the appropriate Government or authority and further that the order that is passed by the appropriate Government or authority must be a speaking order containing reasons.
the employer and the workmen, who have an interest in the matter, to make their submissions (30) It would thus appear that the employer is required to furnish detailed information in respect of the working of the industrial undertaking so as to enable to appropriate Government or authority to make up its mind whether to grant or refuse permission for retrenchment.
Before passing such order, the appropriate Government or authority will have to ascertain whether the said information furnished by the employer is correct and the proposed action involving retrenchment of workmen is necessary and if so, to what extent and for that purpose it would be necessary for the appropriate Government or authority to make an enquiry after affording an opportunity to the employer as well as the workmen to represent their case and make a speaking order containing reasons.
(2) of Section 25-N in the matter of granting or refusing permission for retrenchment, the appropriate Government or the authority does not exercise powers which are purely administrative: but exercises powers which are quasi-judicial in nature".
We are in agreement with the view that, under the unamended Section 25-O, the order was to be passed on a subjective satisfaction of the appropriate Government.
Now in amended Section 25-O the words used are "the appropriate Government may, after making such enquiry as it thinks fit, and after giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the employer, the workmen and persons interested in such closure may, having regard to the genuineness and adequacy of the reasons stated by the employer, interest of the general public and all other relevant factors by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, grant or refuse to grant such permission." Thus now the appropriate Government before passing an order is bound to make an enquiry.
(2) of Section 25-N does not prescribe any guidelines or principles to govern the exercise of the power that has been conferred on the appropriate Government or the authority in the matter of grant or refusal of permission for retrenchment and in the absence of such guidelines or principles, it will be open to the appropriate Government or authority to take into account matters having no bearing or relevance to the legitimate need of the employer to reorganise his business and which may even be opposed to such need and it has been pointed that it would be permissible to pass the order by taking into consideration the state of unemployment in the industry or the state of unemployment in the State.
It has also been submitted that the requirement that reasons should be recorded in the order that is passed by the appropriate Government or authority would not provide any protection against arbitrary action because in the absence of principles governing the exercise of the power, there is no touchstone to assess the validity of those reasons.
We have already dealt with the nature of the power that is exercised by the appropriate Government or the authority while refusing or granting permission under sub-s.
In S.N. Mukherjee Union of India, [1990] 4 SCC 594, it has been held that irrespective of the fact whether the decision is subject to appeal, revision or judicial review, the recording of reasons by an administrative authority by itself serves a salutary purpose, viz., "it excludes chances of arbitrariness and ensures a degree of fairness in the process of decision-making" " (12) Another reason why Section 25-N was struck down was that no time limit had been fixed while refusing permission to close down.
This sub-section provides that the order of the appropriate Government shall remain in force for one year from the date of such order.
(3) of the amended Section 25-O provides that if the appropriate Government does not communicate the order within a period of 60 days from the date on which the application is made, the permission applied for shall be deemed to have been granted.
(5) of the amended Section 25-O provides that the appropriate Government may, either on its own motion or on an application made by the employer or any workman, review its order granting or refusing permission or refer the matter to a Tribunal for adjudication.
As submitted by the learned Attorney General, in a review the appropriate Government would have to make an enquiry into all necessary facts, particularly into the genuineness and adequacy of the reasons stated by the employer.
Under Section 25-O (7) (as it then stood), even when permission to close was granted, the employer had still to give notice and compensation as specified in Section 25-N.
Noting this, it was observed in Excel Wear's case as follows : "Again, by interpretation we were asked to say that steps under section 25- N can be taken simultaneously when a notice under section 25-O(l) is given.
Secondly, it is not practicable to give three months notice in writing or wages for the said period in lieu of notice or to pay the retrenchment compensation in advance as required by section 25-N before the employer gets an approval from the Government." 22.
It is now mere akin to Section 25-N (as it then stood) the Constitutional validity of which was upheld in Meenakshi Mills' case.
Amended Section 25-O lays down guidelines which are to be followed by the appropriate Government in granting or refusing permission to close down.
(7) of amended Section 25-O which provides that if there are exceptional circumstances or accident in the undertaking or death of the employer or the like, the appropriate Government could direct that provision of sub-s.
In Excel Wear's case it has been held that under Section 25-O (as it then stood), even if the reasons are adequate and sufficient, approval could be denied in purported public interest or security of labour.
We do not read Excel Wear's case to mean that permission to close must always be granted if the reasons are genuine and adequate.
The observations relied on, in Excel Wear's case, are in the context of an order under Section 25-O (as it then stood), based on subjective satisfaction and capable of being arbitrary and whimsical.
Now the amended Section 25-O provides for an enquiry after affording an opportunity of being heard and provides that the order has to be a reasoned order in writing.
It was submitted that the amended Section 25-O still suffers from the same vice inasmuch as permission to close could still be refused.
It is not possible to accept the submission that if reasons are genuine and adequate the appropriate Government must always grant permission to close, even though interest of general public and/or other factors require that the business be continued for some time.
Moreover, it must be remembered that the exercise of this power is not made dependent on the subjective opinion of the Passport Authority as regards the necessity of exercising it on one or more of the grounds stated in the section, but the Passport Authority is required to record in writing a brief statement of reasons for impounding the passport and, save in certain exceptional circumstances, to apply a copy of such statement to the person affected, so that the person concerned can challenge the decision of the Passport Authority in appeal and the appellate authority can examine whether the reasons given by the Passport Authority are correct, and if so, whether they justify the making of the order impounding the passport." 27.
Gandhi's case if it is not vague in the Constitution, one fails to see how it becomes vague when it is incorporated in amended Section 25-O.
It is Section 25-O which gives the power to grant or refuse permission.
Mr. Cama also submitted that amended Section 25-O was discriminatory inasmuch as a firm of lawyers or chartered accountants or doctors or a hospital employing several hundred workmen could close down on giving 60 days notice and on payment of closure compensation but in cases of a factory, mine or plantation permission to close could be refused.
